New Example06 - IP Prefixes (#111)
networktocode/diffsync: examples/06-ip-prefixes/README.md

# Example 06 - IP Prefixes

This example shows how to play around to IPAM systems which have a different implementation of an IP Prefix.

These IPAM systems, IPAM A and IPAM B, are simulated using two YAML files within the `data` folder. These files are dynamic, and they will be loaded and updated from diffsync.

## Test the example

You could simply run the `main.py` file, but to run step by step.

### Set up the environment

Install the dependencies (recommended into a virtual environment)

```

> pip3 install -r requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

```

and go into a `python` interactive session:

```
python3
>>>
```

### Import the DiffSync adapters

```py
>>> from adapter_ipam_a import IpamA
>>> from adapter_ipam_b import IpamB
```

### Initialize and load adapter for IPAM A

```py
>>> ipam_a = IpamA()
>>> ipam_a.load()
```

> You can check the content loaded from IPAM A. Notice that the data has been transformed into the DiffSync model, that is different from the original one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the content loaded from IPAM A. Notice that the data has been transformed into the DiffSync model, which is different from the original YAML data.
```

```py
>>> import pprint
>>> pprint.pprint(ipam_a.dict())
{'prefix': {'10.10.10.10/24': {'prefix': '10.10.10.10/24',
                               'vlan_id': 10,
                               'vrf': 'data'},
            '10.20.20.20/24': {'prefix': '10.20.20.20/24',
                               'tenant': 'ABC corp',
                               'vlan_id': 20,
                               'vrf': 'voice'},
            '172.18.0.0/16': {'prefix': '172.18.0.0/16', 'vlan_id': 18}}}
```

### Initialize and load adapter for IPAM B

```py
>>> ipam_b = IpamB()
>>> ipam_b.load()
```

> You can check the content loaded from IPAM B. Notice that the data has been transformed into the DiffSync model, that is different from the original one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the content loaded from IPAM B. Notice that the data has been transformed into the DiffSync model, which again is different from the original YAML format.
```

```py
>>> pprint.pprint(ipam_b.dict())
{'prefix': {'10.10.10.10/24': {'prefix': '10.10.10.10/24', 'vlan_id': 123},
            '2001:DB8::/32': {'prefix': '2001:DB8::/32',
                              'tenant': 'XYZ Corporation',
                              'vlan_id': 10,
                              'vrf': 'data'}}}
```

### Check the difference

> We can use `diff_to` or `diff_sync` to select, from the perspective of the calling adapter, who is the authoritative in each case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use `diff_to` or `diff_from` to select, from the perspective of the calling adapter, who is the authoritative in each case.
```

```py
>>> pprint.pprint(diff.dict())
{'prefix': {'10.10.10.10/24': {'+': {'vlan_id': 10, 'vrf': 'data'},
                               '-': {'vlan_id': 123, 'vrf': None}},
            '10.20.20.20/24': {'+': {'tenant': 'ABC corp',
                                     'vlan_id': 20,
                                     'vrf': 'voice'}},
            '172.18.0.0/16': {'+': {'tenant': None,
                                    'vlan_id': 18,
                                    'vrf': None}},
            '2001:DB8::/32': {'-': {'tenant': 'XYZ Corporation',
                                    'vlan_id': 10,
                                    'vrf': 'data'}}}}
```

### Enforce synchronization

Simply transforming the `diff_to` to `sync_to`, we are going to change the state of the destination target.

```py
>>> ipam_a.sync_to(ipam_b)
```

### Validate synchronization

Now, if we reload the IPAM B, and try to check the difference, we should see no differences.

```py
>>> new_ipam_b = IpamB().load()
>>> diff = ipam_a.diff_to(ipam_b)
>>> diff.summary()
{'create': 0, 'update': 0, 'delete': 0, 'no-change': 3}

> ```

Reviewer: Something seems off here - you're loading `new_ipam_b` but then checking the diff between `ipam_a` and `ipam_b`?
